.TH "bsp_get_tag" 3 "1.4 25/9/98" "Oxford BSP Toolset" "BSPlib FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
bsp_get_tag \- check the tag on a BSMP packet.

.SH C SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include \&"bsp.h\&"
.PP
.BI "void bsp_get_tag(int *" status ", void *" tag ");"
.fi
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS 
.nf
.BI "SUBROUTINE  bspgettag(" status , tag )
.BI    "INTEGER, intent(OUT) ::" status
.BI    "<TYPE>,  intent(OUT) ::" tag
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

To receive a message, the user should use the procedures
.B bsp_get_tag
and
.B bsp_move(3)\c
\&. The effect of the operation
.B bsp_get_tag
is that the argument 
.I status 
has the value -1 assigned to it if system buffer is empty.  Otherwise
it becomes the length of the payload of the first message in the
buffer. This length can be used to allocate an appropriately sized
data structure for copying the payload using
.B bsp_move(3)\c
\&. The memory referenced by
.I tag
is unchanged if the system buffer is empty. Otherwise it is assigned
the tag of the first message in the buffer.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
bsmp(3) ,bsp_send(3), bsp_set_tagsize(3), bsp_qsize(3), 
bsp_move(3), bsp_hpmove(3)

.I ``BSPlib: The BSP Programming Library''
Jonathan M. D. Hill, Bill McColl, Dan C. Stefanescu, Mark W. Goudreau,
Kevin Lang, Satish B. Rao, , Torsten Suel, Thanasis Tsantilas, and Rob
Bisseling. Parallel Computing, to appear 1998. See
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org
for more details.

.SH BUGS
Problems and bug reports should be mailed to 
.I bsplib-bugs@comlab.ox.ac.uk

.SH AUTHORS
The Oxford BSP Toolset implementation of BSPlib was written by
Jonathan.Hill@comlab.ox.ac.uk
.br
.B http://www.comlab.ox.ac.uk/oucl/people/jonathan.hill.html
