.TH "bsp_hpmove" 3 "1.4 25/9/98" "Oxford BSP Toolset" "BSPlib FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
bsp_abort \- stop a BSP computation

.SH C SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include \&"bsp.h\&"
.PP
.BI "void bsp_abort(char *" format , "..." ");"
.fi
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BI "SUBROUTINE bspabort(" err_string ")"
.BI "CHARACTER(*), intent(IN)::" err_string
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The function 
.B bsp_abort
can be used to print an error message followed by a halt of the entire
.B bsplib(3) 
program. The routine is designed not to require a barrier
synchronisation of all processes. A single process in a potentially
unique thread of control can therefore halt the entire 
.B bsplib(3)
program.

In the C version of the function,
.I format 
is a C-style format string as used by 
.B printf(3)\c
\&. Any other arguments are interpreted in the same way as the
variable number of arguments to 
.B printf(3)\c
\&.
   
.I err_string
is single error string that is printed when the Fortran routine is
executed. All computation ceases after a call to 
.B bsp_abort\c
\&.



.SH "SEE ALSO"
bsplib(3)

.I ``BSPlib: The BSP Programming Library''
Jonathan M. D. Hill, Bill McColl, Dan C. Stefanescu, Mark W. Goudreau,
Kevin Lang, Satish B. Rao, , Torsten Suel, Thanasis Tsantilas, and Rob
Bisseling. Parallel Computing, to appear 1998. See
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org
for more details.

.SH NOTES
.IP i
If more than one process calls
.B bsp_abort
in the same superstep, then either one, all, or a subset of the
processes that called 
.B bsp_abort
may print their format string to the terminal before stopping the
BSPlib computation.

.SH BUGS
Problems and bug reports should be mailed to 
.I bsplib-bugs@comlab.ox.ac.uk

.SH AUTHORS
The Oxford BSP Toolset implementation of BSPlib was written by
Jonathan.Hill@comlab.ox.ac.uk
.br
.B http://www.comlab.ox.ac.uk/oucl/people/jonathan.hill.html
