.TH "bsp_set_tagsize" 3 "1.4 25/9/98" "Oxford BSP Toolset" "BSPlib FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
bsp_set_tagsize \- tag size of a BSMP packet.

.SH C SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include \&"bsp.h\&"
.PP
.BI "void bsp_set_tagsize(int *" tag_bytes ");"
.fi
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS 
.nf
.BI "SUBROUTINE  bspsettagsize(tag_bytes)
.BI "  INTEGER, intent(INOUT) :: " tag_bytes
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

Allowing the user to set the tag size enables the use of tags that are
appropriate for the communication requirements of each superstep.
This should be particularly useful in the development of subroutines
either in user programs or in libraries.

The procedure must be called collectively by all processes. A
change in tag size takes effect in the following superstep; it
then becomes 
.I valid\c
\&.

The value of 
.I tag_bytes
on entry to the procedure, specifies the size of the fixed-length
portion of every message in the current and succeeding supersteps; the
default tag size is zero. On return from the procedure,
.I tag_bytes
is changed to reflect the previous value of the tag size.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
bsmp(3) ,bsp_send(3), bsp_get_tag(3), bsp_qsize(3),
bsp_move(3), bsp_hpmove(3)

.I ``BSPlib: The BSP Programming Library''
Jonathan M. D. Hill, Bill McColl, Dan C. Stefanescu, Mark W. Goudreau,
Kevin Lang, Satish B. Rao, , Torsten Suel, Thanasis Tsantilas, and Rob
Bisseling. Parallel Computing, to appear 1998. See
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org
for more details.

.SH NOTES

.IP i
The tag size of outgoing messages is prescribed by the tag size that
is valid in the current superstep.

.IP ii
The tag size of messages in the system queue is prescribed by the tag
size that was valid in the previous superstep.

.IP iii
.B bsp_set_tagsize(3)
must be called by 
.I all 
processes with the same argument in the same superstep.  In this
respect, it is similar to 
.B bsp_push_reg(3)\c
\&.

.IP iv
.B bsp_set_tagsize(3)
takes effect in the next superstep.


.IP v
Given a sequence of
.B bsp_set_tagsize(3)
within the same superstep, then the value of the last of these will be
used as the tag size for the next superstep.

.IP vi
The default tag size is 0.

.SH BUGS
Problems and bug reports should be mailed to 
.I bsplib-bugs@comlab.ox.ac.uk

.SH AUTHORS
The Oxford BSP Toolset implementation of BSPlib was written by
Jonathan.Hill@comlab.ox.ac.uk
.br
.B http://www.comlab.ox.ac.uk/oucl/people/jonathan.hill.html
