.TH "bsp_qsize" 3 "1.4 25/9/98" "Oxford BSP Toolset" "BSPlib FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
bsp_qsize \- checks to see how many BSMP packets arrived.

.SH C SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include \&"bsp.h\&"
.PP
.BI "void  bsp_qsize(int *" packets ", int *" accum_nbytes ");"
.fi
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS 
.nf
.BI "SUBROUTINE  bspqsize(" packets "," accum_nbytes ")"
.BI    "INTEGER, intent(OUT) ::" packets, accum_nbytes
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION

The function 
.B bsp_qsize(3)
is an enquiry function that returns the number of messages that were sent to
this process in the previous superstep and have not yet been
consumed by a 
.B bsp_move(3)\c
\&. Before any message is consumed by 
.B bsp_move(3)\c
\&, the total number of messages received will match those sent by any
.B bsp_send(3) operations in the previous superstep. The
function also returns the accumulated size of all the payloads of the
unconsumed messages. This operation is intended to help the user to
allocate an appropriately sized data structure to hold all the
messages that were sent to a process during a superstep.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
bsmp(3) ,bsp_send(3), bsp_move(3)

.I ``BSPlib: The BSP Programming Library''
Jonathan M. D. Hill, Bill McColl, Dan C. Stefanescu, Mark W. Goudreau,
Kevin Lang, Satish B. Rao, , Torsten Suel, Thanasis Tsantilas, and Rob
Bisseling. Parallel Computing, to appear 1998. See
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org
for more details.

.SH NOTES
.IP i
.B bsp_qsize(3)
returns the number of
messages in the system queue at the point the operation is
called; the number returned therefore decreases after any
.B bsp_move(3)
operation.

.SH BUGS
Problems and bug reports should be mailed to 
.I bsplib-bugs@comlab.ox.ac.uk

.SH AUTHORS
The Oxford BSP Toolset implementation of BSPlib was written by
Jonathan.Hill@comlab.ox.ac.uk
.br
.B http://www.comlab.ox.ac.uk/oucl/people/jonathan.hill.html
