.TH "bsp_send" 3 "1.4 25/9/98" "Oxford BSP Toolset" "BSPlib FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
bsp_send \- transmit a BSMP packet to a remote process.

.SH C SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include \&"bsp.h\&"
.PP
.BI "void bsp_send(int " pid ",const void *" tag ","
.BI "              const void * " payload ",int " payload_bytes ");"
.fi
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS 
.nf
.BI "SUBROUTINE  bspsend(" pid,tag,payload,payload_bytes)
.BI "   INTEGER, intent(IN) :: " pid
.BI "   <TYPE>,  intent(IN) :: " tag
.BI "   <TYPE>,  intent(IN) :: " payload
.BI "   INTEGER, intent(IN) :: " payload_bytes
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

The 
.B bsp_send(3)
operation is used to send a message that consists of a tag and a
payload to a specified destination process.  The destination process
will be able to access the message during the subsequent
superstep. The
.B bsp_send(3)
operation copies both the tag and the payload of the message before
returning.  The 
.I tag
and 
.I payload 
variables can therefore be changed by the
user immediately after the
.B bsp_send(3)\c
\&.  Messages sent by
.B bsp_send(3)
are 
.I not
guaranteed to be received in any particular order by the destination
process.  This is the case even for successive calls of
.B bsp_send(3)
from one process with the same value for 
.I pid\c
\&.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
bsmp(3), bsp_set_tagsize(3), bsp_qsize(3), bsp_get_tag(3), bsp_move(3)

.I ``BSPlib: The BSP Programming Library''
Jonathan M. D. Hill, Bill McColl, Dan C. Stefanescu, Mark W. Goudreau,
Kevin Lang, Satish B. Rao, , Torsten Suel, Thanasis Tsantilas, and Rob
Bisseling. Parallel Computing, to appear 1998. See
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org
for more details.

.SH NOTES

.IP i
The size of the tag used in 
.B bsp_send(3)
will depend upon either the size of tag that was active in the
previous superstep, or the size specified by the last
.B bsp_set_tagsize(3)
.I "issued in the previous superstep."

.IP ii
If the payload size is zero, then a message that only contains the tag
will be sent. Similarly, if the tag size is zero, then a message just
containing the payload will be sent. If both the tag and payload are
zero, a message that contains neither tag nor payload 
.I will be sent.

.IP iii
If the tag size is zero, then the 
.I tag
argument may be NULL. Similarly, if the payload size is zero, then the
.I payload
argument may be NULL.

.SH BUGS
Problems and bug reports should be mailed to 
.I bsplib-bugs@comlab.ox.ac.uk

.SH AUTHORS
The Oxford BSP Toolset implementation of BSPlib was written by
Jonathan.Hill@comlab.ox.ac.uk
.br
.B http://www.comlab.ox.ac.uk/oucl/people/jonathan.hill.html
