.TH "Level 1" 3 "1.4 25/9/98" "Oxford BSP Toolset" "BSPlib FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
BSPlib level 1\- Collective communications and language specific
libraries for BSPlib.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The core 
.B bsplib(3)
library provides a low level mechanism for managining communication
within the Bulk Synchronous Parallel model. In contrast, the
.I BSPlib level 1
library provides language specific operations, and a variety of
specialised collective communications. These are not considered as
part of the core library, as they can be easily realised in terms of
the core. The level 1 library is summarised in the table below. Manual
pages are available for each of the operations.

.RS 
.nf
.ta 2.0i
BSP Parameters	bsp_s
	bsp_l
	bsp_g
	bsp_nhalf
F77 library	bspput_common
	bsphpput_common
	bspget_common
	bsphpget_common
	bspsync_number
Broadcast	bsp_bcast
Gather	bsp_gather
Scatter	bsp_scatter
Reduction	bsp_fold
	bsp_all
	bsp_any
	bsp_sumI
	bsp_sumD
	bsp_productI
	bsp_productR
	bsp_productD
	bsp_minI
	bsp_minR
	bsp_minD
	bsp_maxI
	bsp_maxR
	bsp_maxD
Parallel Prefix	bsp_scan
	bsp_sumI_prefix
	bsp_sumD_prefix
	bsp_productI_prefix
	bsp_productR_prefix
	bsp_productD_prefix
	bsp_minI_prefix
	bsp_minR_prefix
	bsp_minD_prefix
	bsp_maxI_prefix
	bsp_maxR_prefix
	bsp_maxD_prefix
.fi
.RE


.SH "SEE ALSO"
bsplib(3), bsp_l(3), bsp_g(3), bsp_nhalf(3), bspput_common(3),
bsphpput_common(3), bspget_common(3), bsphpget_common(3),
bspsync_number(3), bsp_bcast(3), bsp_gather(3), bsp_scatter(3),
bsp_fold(3), bsp_all(3), bsp_any(3), bsp_sumI(3), bsp_sumD(3),
bsp_productI(3), bsp_productR(3), bsp_productD(3), bsp_minI(3),
bsp_minR(3), bsp_minD(3), bsp_maxI(3), bsp_maxR(3), bsp_maxD(3),
bsp_sumI_prefix(3), bsp_sumD_prefix(3), bsp_productI_prefix(3),
bsp_productR_prefix(3), bsp_productD_prefix(3), bsp_minI_prefix(3),
bsp_minR_prefix(3), bsp_minD_prefix(3), bsp_maxI_prefix(3),
bsp_maxR_prefix(3), bsp_maxD_prefix(3)

.I ``BSPlib: The BSP Programming Library''
Jonathan M. D. Hill, Bill McColl, Dan C. Stefanescu, Mark W. Goudreau,
Kevin Lang, Satish B. Rao, , Torsten Suel, Thanasis Tsantilas, and Rob
Bisseling. Parallel Computing, to appear 1998. See
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org
for more details.

The Oxford BSP toolset web pages can be found  at:
.br
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org/implmnts/oxtool/

.SH BUGS
Problems and bug reports should be mailed to 
.I bsplib-bugs@comlab.ox.ac.uk
