.TH "BSPlib" 3BSPlib "1.4 25/9/98" "Oxford BSP Toolset" "BSPlib FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
BSPlib \- The Bulk Synchronous Parallel  World-Wide standard library. 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B BSPlib 
is a library of C and Fortran 77 bindings for parallel programming
using the BSP model. User programs are written in a Single Program
Multiple Data (SPMD) style, and the library supports both bulk
synchronous direct remote memory access
.B drma(3)
(i.e., memory copy between processors) and bulk synchronous message
passing 
.B bsmp(3)\c
\&. The set of basic operations provided by BSPlib are shown in the
table below (a manual page is available for each operation):

.RS
.nf
.ta 2.0i
Initialisation	bsp_init
	bsp_begin
	bsp_end
Halt	bsp_abort
Enquiry	bsp_pid
	bsp_nprocs
	bsp_time
Synchronisation	bsp_sync
DRMA	bsp_push_reg
	bsp_pop_reg
	bsp_put
	bsp_get
BSMP	bsp_set_tagsize
	bsp_send
	bsp_qsize
	bsp_get_tag
	bsp_move
High Performance	
	bsp_hpput
	bsp_hpget
	bsp_hpmove
.fi
.RE


A higher-level library, summarised in 
.B bsplib_level1(3)
 provides language specific operations, and a variety of specialised
collective communication operations. These are not considered as part
of the core library, as they can be easily realised in terms of the
core.

.SH NOTES
Programs written using BSPlib should be compiled with 
.B bspfront(1)\c
\&.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
bsp_level1(3), bsp_init(3), bsp_begin(3), bsp_end(3), bsp_pid(3),
bsp_nprocs(3), bsp_time(3), bsp_sync(3), drma(3), bsp_isregistered(3),
bsp_push_reg(3), bsp_pop_reg(3), bsp_put(3), bsp_get(3),
bsp_hpput(3), bsp_hpget(3), bsmp(3), bsp_set_tagsize(3), bsp_send(3),
bsp_qsize(3),bsp_get_tag(3), bsp_move(3), bsp_hpmove(3), bsp_abort(3)

.I ``BSPlib: The BSP Programming Library''
Jonathan M. D. Hill, Bill McColl, Dan C. Stefanescu, Mark W. Goudreau,
Kevin Lang, Satish B. Rao, , Torsten Suel, Thanasis Tsantilas, and Rob
Bisseling. Parallel Computing, to appear 1998. See
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org
for more details.

.I ``A proposal for the BSP Worldwide 
.I Standard Library (preliminary version)''
Mark W. Goudreau, Jonathan M. D. Hill, Kevin Lang, Bill McColl, Satish
B. Rao, Dan C. Stefanescu, Torsten Suel, Thanasis Tsantilas. Oxford
University Computing Laboratory, April 1996. See
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org
for more details.

.I ``Questions and answers
.I about BSP'' David B. Skillicorn, Jonathan M. D. Hill, and Bill
McColl. Journal of Scientific Programming, to appear 1997. (See also
Technical Report 15-96, Programming Research Group, Oxford University
Computing Laboratory, August 1996)
.br
.I ftp://ftp.comlab.ox.ac.uk/pub/Packages/BSP/papers/SkillHillMcColl_QA.ps.gz

The Oxford BSP toolset web pages can be found  at:
.br
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org/implmnts/oxtool/

.SH BUGS
Problems and bug reports should be mailed to 
.I bsplib-bugs@comlab.ox.ac.uk

.SH AUTHORS
The Oxford BSP Toolset implementation of BSPlib was written by
Jonathan.Hill@comlab.ox.ac.uk
.br
.B http://www.comlab.ox.ac.uk/oucl/people/jonathan.hill.html

