.TH bsparch 1 "1.4 25/9/98" "Oxford BSP Toolset"
.SH NAME
bsparch \- determine the machine architecture and communication
device.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bsparch
[ \-arch ] [ \-device ] [ \-nodefault ] [ \-name ]
[ \-defdevice machine ] [ \-convertname machine ]
[ \-convertdevice device ]
[ \-allarch ] [ \-alldevice ]
[ \-help ] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bsparch
determines the machine specific installation options required to
install the Oxford BSP toolset.  Two factors guide the installation of
the toolset: (1) the machine architecture and operating system
release; and (2) the type of device used as the communication
medium. The
.I \-arch
option determines the machine architecture, and  
.I \-device 
the relevant communication device.
.PP

To date, the tested architectures are:

.nf
.ta \w'HITACHIMPPxx'u
SGICHALL64	Silicon Graphics Power Challenge (Irix 6.x)
SGIORIGIN       Silicon Graphics Origin 2000 (Irix 6.x)
SGI	Silicon Graphics workstation (Irix 5.x)
SP2	IBM SP2 running AIX
CRAYT3E	Cray T3E
CRAYT3D	Cray T3D
PARSYTEC	Parsytec Explorer
CONVEXSPP	Convex SPP
SunOS	SunOS 4.1.x 
Solaris	SunOS 5.x 
LINUX	PC based Unix 
OSF1	Digital's alpha boxes 
HITACHIMPP	Hitachi SR2001
.fi 


The tested communication devices are shown below.  It should be noted,
that only a small subset of the cross-product of architectures and
devices are valid builds of the toolset.

.nf
.ta \w'MPASS_EXPRESSxx'u
SHMEM_SYSV	System V shared memory
SHMEM_SGI	SGI specific shared memory operations 
MPASS_TCPIP     TCP/IP based message passing
MPASS_MPI	MPI 
MPASS_MPL	IBM's message passing system 
MPASS_PARIX	Message passing on the Parsytec GC 
MPASS_EXPRESS	Express (Parasoft Ltd) message passing
DRMA_SHMEM	Cray Shmem one-sided communications
.fi

The default device behaviour of
.I bsparch(1)
can be overridden by providing an environment variable 
.I BSP_DEVICE
in the user's environment, whose value is the name of the desired
device. You will have to override the default behaviour when
installing
.B bsplib(3) 
on top of MPI.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
bsplib(3)

The Oxford BSP toolset web pages can be found  at:
.br
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org/implmnts/oxtool/

.SH BUGS
Problems and bug reports should be mailed to 
.I bsplib-bugs@comlab.ox.ac.uk

.SH AUTHORS
The Oxford BSP Toolset implementation of BSPlib was written by
Jonathan.Hill@comlab.ox.ac.uk
.br
.B http://www.comlab.ox.ac.uk/oucl/people/jonathan.hill.html

