.TH "bspload" 1 "1.4 25/9/98" "Oxford BSP Toolset" 
.SH NAME
bspload \- BSP load manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bspload
[\-v] [\-help] [\-u] [ \-all ] [\-start] [\-end]\c
.RI "-s " "hostname"
.RI "-r " "hostname"
.RI "-p " "port-number"
[\-reloadlocal] [\-reloadglobal] \c

.SH DESCRIPTION
The daemon
.I bsploadd 
is used to ensure that BSP jobs are started on the least loaded nodes
in a network. A daemon is started on a node of a cluster by running
the command
.I bspload -start\c
\&. The load of a cluster of workstations can then be enquired by the
user as follows:

.nf
pine.comlab> bspload

        ***Next update in 9 secs from ash.comlab***

Priority|    Machine     | CPUs |    Flop rate    | Load |        Age
--------+----------------+------+-----------------+------+--------------
 1.0000 |     ash.comlab |    2 |   41.29 Mflop/s | 0.04 |        23 sec
 0.3555 |    pine.comlab |    1 |   29.36 Mflop/s | 0.04 |         0 sec
 0.3507 |     oak.comlab |    1 |   28.96 Mflop/s | 0.04 |  3 min 15 sec
 0.0151 | mercury.comlab |    4 |   20.13 Mflop/s | 2.59 |        23 sec
.fi

When a BSP job requests 
.I p
processes, the 
.I p
least loaded machines are chosen automatically, which provides a crude
load balancing facility at process startup time. In the next release
of the library, a general purpose process migration and checkpoint
facility will be provided that enables run-time load balancing and
fault tolerance of
.B bsplib(3)
jobs.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
Print (on standard error output) the phases involved in the execution
of the command.
.TP
.B \-help
Print this manual page on standard output.

.TP 
.B \-u
The output from the load daemon is an unformated list with an entry
per line.

.TP 
.B \-all
Changes the meaning of the 
.I \-start 
and 
.I \-end
options.

.TP
.B \-start
Start the daemon on the local workstation. If the
.I \-all
option has already been set, then a daemon is started on each
processor specified in .bsptcphosts. This option requires that the
local workstation has an entry in the .rhost files on all the
machines in the cluster, as it uses 
.I rsh(3)\c
\&. If 
.I rsh 
is not available on your platform, you will have to start the daemons
on each of the machines individually.

.TP
.B \-end
Close down the daemon on the local workstations. If the
.I \-all
option has already been set, then the daemons are stopped on all the
workstations.

.TP 
.BI "\-s " hostname
Connect to the load manager on processor 
.I hostname
in preference to
.I localhost\c
\&.

.TP 
.BI "\-r " hostname
Forces the local load manager to update it's local load information
with the load information from
.I hostname\c
\&.

.TP 
.BI "\-p " portnumber
Ensure that the load manager listens on port 
.I portnumber 
for incoming requests. The default port it 4445.

.TP
.B \-reloadlocal
Causes the local load manager to update it's local load information
with loads from every other machine.

.TP
.B \-reloadglobal
Causes all the load managers to exchange their local load
information.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
bsprun(1), bsplib(3)

The Oxford BSP toolset web pages can be found  at:
.br
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org/implmnts/oxtool/

.SH BUGS
Problems and bug reports should be mailed to 
.I bsplib-bugs@comlab.ox.ac.uk

.SH AUTHORS
The Oxford BSP Toolset implementation of BSPlib was written by
Jonathan.Hill@comlab.ox.ac.uk
.br
.B http://www.comlab.ox.ac.uk/oucl/people/jonathan.hill.html

