.TH "bspparam" 1 "1.4 25/9/98" "Oxford BSP Toolset" 
.SH NAME
bspparm \- prints a table of the BSP machine parameters

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bspparam\c
 [ \-v ] [ \-help ] [ \a ] [ \-time ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This command generates a table containing the BSP cost parameters for the machine
the command is executed upon. The entries in the table are read from a
database, and not generated on demand. 

The BSP parameter database is used by 
.B bspprof(1)\c
\&,
.B bspsig(1)\c
\& and the 
.B bsplib_level1(3)\c
\& functions
.B bsp_s(3)\c
\&, 
.B bsp_l(3)\c
\&, 
.B bsp_g(3)\c
\& and
.B bsp_nhalf(3)\c
\&. These functions are used in the definition of the 
.B bsplib_level1(3)
collective communucations operations such that alternative
implementations of a collective operation may be choosen at runtime
depending upon the values of a machines BSP parameters.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
Print (on standard error output) the phases involved in the execution
of the command.
.TP
.B \-help
Print this manual page on standard output.
.TP
.B \-time
The BSP parameters are given with respect to micro-seconds instead of
equivalent number of floating point operations. 
.TP
.B \-a
Generate entries for all machines  stored in the BSP parameter database.

.SH "NOTES"
The environment variable
.B BSP_SLG
can be used to override the database entry for a machines BSP parameters. For
example,

.nf
> setenv BSP_SLG 50.0,1000,10.0,12
.fi

has the effect of setting s=50.0 mflops/sec, L=1000 mflops, g=10.0
flops/word, 
and n_half=20 words. 

.SH FILES
The file \fIPREFIX\fR/include/bsp_parameters.ascii contains a table
of the BSP parameters read by these functions; where
.I PREFIX
is the installation prefix set when configuring BSPlib.

.SH  "SEE ALSO"
bsplib(3), bspfront(1), bsparch(1)

The Oxford BSP toolset web pages can be found  at:
.br
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org/implmnts/oxtool/
.br
.I http://www.bsp-worldwide.org/implmnts/oxtool/params.html

.SH BUGS
Problems and bug reports should be mailed to 
.I bsplib-bugs@comlab.ox.ac.uk

.SH AUTHORS
Jonathan.Hill@comlab.ox.ac.uk
.PP
.B http://www.comlab.ox.ac.uk/oucl/people/jonathan.hill.html
